What is the definition of a neural network?
Why neural networks?
What is the theory about Intelligence?
What is the history of artificial intelligence origins?
What is the history of neural network origins?
What is the history of serial symbolic AI origins?
What is the definition of neural network “Dark Ages”?
What is the definition of knowledge-based systems?
What is the history of neural network renaissance?
What are applications of deep learning?
What is the history of deep learning?
What is the definition of neuroanatomy?
What is the definition of cerebral cortex?
What is the definition of brain stem?
What is the definition of cerebellum and its functions?
What are the functions of midbrain?
What is the definition and function of thalamus?
What is the definition and function of hypothalamus?
What is definition and function of limbic system?
What and why neurons as body cells?
What is the differences between neurons and body cells?
What are the definition of axons and dendrites?
What are the definition of synapses and ion channels?
What is the definition of the big picture?
What is the definition of hubel and weisel – visual cortex?
What are the definition of convolutional networks?
What are the definition of recurrent neural networks?
What are the definition of autoencoder networks?
What are the definition of spiking neurons?
What is the outline of perceptrons?
What are the definition of biological neurons?
What are the definition of artificial neural networks?
What is the definition of mcculloch & pitts model of a single neuron?
What is the function of a perceptron?
What is the definition of historical context?
What is the outline of backpropagation?
What are the types of learning?
What is supervised learning?
What are the definition of supervised learning – issues?
What is the definition of ockham’s razor?
How to solve many useful functions are not linearly separable?
What is the definition of two-layer neural network?
What is the definition of xor problem?
Why nn training as cost minimization?
What is the problem of local search in weight space?
What is the definition of gradient descent?
What is the definition of chain rule?
What are the definition of two-layer nn’s – applications?
What are the definition of training tips?
What is the definition of alvinn?
What is the summary of backpropagation?
What is the outline of variations on backprop?
What is the definition of probability?
What are the definition of random variables?
What are the definition of variations on backprop？
What is the definition and function of cross entropy?
What is the definition of maximum likelihood?
What is the definition of bayes’ rule?
What is the example of medical diagnosis?
What is the example of light bulb defects?
How is the Bayes Rule in Machine Learning?
How to use weight decay?
How to use momentum?
What is the definition of conjugate gradients?
What is the definition of natural gradients (Amari, 1995)?