Week 1

20/02/19
Group formed. Spent the lab time setting up Github group and Trello. Decided to
do project 1 because it was more clearly defined. Specifically, chose to do a
course support system which includes course admin and course content.

Week 2

25/02/19
Had group meeting. Discussed available tools and technologies to be used in the
project. Lots of uncertainty because the lecturer hasn't given us access to
UNSW's Academic Information Management System. We do not know if we can use it
as a database or if we need to scrape data from it and create our own database.

Will be creating web app using Flask for the server and simple HTML, CSS and JS
for client. This is because we are not experienced with web frameworks but we
are experienced with python.

Discussed what to include in the proposal and divided work. Wrote up basic
outline for epic user stories. I will be working on fleshing out epic user
stories and writing user stories.

27/02/19
Asked questions about proposal to tutor. We were confused about what needed to
be included in the proposal because the specifications were very vague but we
were still not given clear direction. For example, "technical depth of the
project and its scale" is worth 50% of the proposal but there is no information
on what is to be included.

01/03/19
Had a 3 hour meeting to discuss progress on the project proposal because there
was new information given during the lecture. An example project proposal was
given to us which gave us a clearer idea of what direction to move in. Hao
researched Dialogflow since the last meeting and taught the rest of us what he's
learnt. Using this new information, we adjusted our framework to make better use
of Dialogflow. We switched from Flask to Node.js for the server because at the
moment it appears easier to use Dialogflow using Node.js.

I had already finished most of the user stories so we took a brief look through
it and discussed the scope of our project. We decided we'd start with a simple
web app and focus on the back end first. When the back end is finished, we would
then integrate other front end environments to our system such as Facebook
Messenger and Trello.

Week 3

06/03/19
Jia compiled our sections for the proposal into a single document. We went over
what we needed to change with the tutor.

08/03/19
We each made the necessary changes to our sections and I went over the whole
document fixing up typos and formatting before submitting it.

Week 4

11/03/19
What was planned?
Set up web server and client.

What was finished?
I finished setting up a basic web server and client. The server was set up using
Express and Node.JS, and the client was made using HTML, CSS, and JS.

Main issues
I'm experienced with modifying web servers and clients but am not experience
with setting them up. I did not know how to implement a RESTful API so I got
around this by using the Socket.IO for communication between the client and
server.

What was not finished?

What is planned for next period?
Connect front end server to Dialogflow and backend.

Week 5

19/03/19
What was planned?
Connect front end server to Dialogflow and backend.

What was finished?
Found documentation on how to use Dialogflow API through Node.JS.

Main issues
Lack of experience in web development. Currently looking for examples of
applications that has used the API.

What was not finished?
Currently still not able to connect front end with Dialogflow.

What is planned for next period?
Connect front end server to Dialogflow and backend.

Week 6

25/03/19
What was planned?
Connect front end server to Dialogflow and backend.

What was finished?
Dialogflow can receive request from front end and can send response to server.

Main issues
Unable to pass response from server to client. This is because JavaScript is
asynchronous and the client does not wait for a response from the server.
Instead, the client just believes the response is undefined.

What was not finished?
Pass Dialogflow response from web server to client.

What is planned for next period?
Pass Dialogflow response from web server to client.