Week 1

Team formed.
We created github group accounts, and choosed project 1 and second topic as our task.
I read materials followed by given project's introduction(links). 
Next week we plan to have a group meeting to exchange thoughts and make a draft for proposal.


Week2

This week we planed to have a meeting for starting the project and preparing for proposal.
On Monday's meeting, We discussed possible structures and available techniques. Then we proposed some candidates of epics.
The obstacles(mainly about proposal, discussed but unsoved): 
                                      1, how deep can the user's questions ask to the agent about course content?
                                      2, will database be provided
                                      3, do we need to support Collaborative Learning
The first and sencond problems we didn't get helps from lab hours. Actually it's frustrating. We hope more suggestions or
instructions. We knew we do not need achieve Collaborative Learning by the tutor said.
Next period we plan to do some research to work out a clear structure, as well as learn related knowledge and techniques.
Meanwhile, complete the proposal by next Wednesday.

We had an extra meeting on Friday. Before that, I have read documentation of DialogFlow and related materials. Then shared
what I learned to my group members on the meeting. We decided to use Node.JS, instead of flask. We also decided to deploy our
agent on more platforms, such as facebook messenger, google asistant, benefitting from powerful features of dialogflow. And I
proposed a plan that solves how can we match user's intent with course content. But still had problem on it. Finaly we discuss
and assigned tasks about proposal to each group member.

I have completed the second half part of technical depth. We plan to integrate our works on next Monday.



Week3

The third week I planned to read papers provided in course website, so that we could finally determine a strategy that 
can find a related part from extracted course content, w.r.t users questions. And I intended to construct a text preprosessing
model by this week, preprocessing the raw course data.

In the lab hours, tutor suggested us to modify our proposal. I made a new diagram that illustrates how the agent works more
specifically. The new diagram is more clear and detailed in presenting work procedure. By Friday, we intergrated our works on
proposal then submitted it.

After my research, I was inspired by two essays: 'MOOC-O-BOT: Using Cognitive Technologies to Extend Knowledge Support in
MOOCs' and 'Text Retrieval by Term Co-occurrences in a Query-based Vector Space'. Therefore, I decided to introduce a IR model
as the core function, which could rank the content chunks. The chunk with highest score will be presented to users. Besides, I
plan to introduce a learning factor adjusted by users feedback, with which the matching acucuracy could be improved.

In the last two days of this week, I completed the preprocessing model then tested it.

Next week I plan to construct the Keywords Extraction model.



Week4

This week my task is to construct the Keywords Extraction model and test it.

On the weekly meeting we clarified our respective tasks in current stage. I told my group members the interfaces of the 
APIs (backend) and the form the data needed, so we can make sure that different components can work together successfully.

I encountered a issue that the keyword extracting threshold is difficult to determine. I am going to adjust it when we have
more data.

Next week I plan to build a tentative IR model and explore a method that uses intent matching of dialogflow in a brilliant
way, improving the performance of the IR model. 


